being reasonable it's the most
ineluctably necessary and yet most
difficult thing for human beings to do
particularly in politics imagine if a
situation had transpired in Montreal
Canada very much parallel to what
transpired within the last 12 months in
Hong Kong China do you think that the
Government of Canada would be so patient
so tolerant and so broadly speaking
nonviolent in standing by and allowing
pro-democracy protesters to shut down
the universities in downtown Montreal
Canada allowing them to shut down all
the major roads and highways that flow
through Montreal Canada
in allowing them altum Utley to shut
down and occupy the airport for Montreal
Canada do you think the Canadian
government would have responded as
obligingly would they have shown so much
tolerance and so much pace that patience
as we saw the communist government of
China show now you may protest that the
cause represented by the protests in
Hong Kong is very pious and good
challenge yourself think it through if
you would approve of the same methods
and tactics if it were a cause you do
not sympathize with you do not agree
with where you don't valorize the
objectives what if instead of
pro-democracy protesters and
pro-independence protesters by the way
both claims that revolutionaries in
Quebec could make and historically in
the recent past they have made that they
wanted independence and democracy in
Quebec for Quebecers and so on you can
imagine much of the same rhetoric could
apply to Montreal Quebec and their
independence pro-democracy sovereignty
movements so imagine if the same tactics
were being used by anti-abortion
protesters people who want abortion to
be made illegal depending on where you
live when you're watching this video
it's quite likely that 40% of the people
who surround you would prefer if
abortion were illegal it's quite
possible you live somewhere where 60% of
people are morally opposed to abortion
and in case you don't know this isn't
just an issue within Christianity
Christian dominate cultures it's an
issue within Islam it's an issue within
Chinese culture
it's an issue within indian culture
which is to say Hindu culture it's an
issue within Buddhism worldwide
Buddhists are antiabortion case you
didn't know
including even Tibetan Buddhists
supposedly groovy groups like that if
you actually get to know Chinese people
on a one-to-one basis you'll figure out
that most of them are actually quite a
bit more strongly opposed to abortion
than Catholics in the modern West to
give a very brief digression or example
many Catholics will say they are opposed
to abortion in abstract and in general
but when it happens to them well it's
their own family their own unplanned
pregnancy or when they themselves get
pregnant for example with a child with
Down syndrome if they become pregnant
with a fetus in it's proven to have Down
syndrome Catholics in the modern West
generally will get abortions when it
suits their purpose you can meet a lot
of Chinese people alive right now the
21st century who made the opposite
choice when it was the Damned when it
was their life on the line when it was
their baby on the line etc they really
lived by it so I won't comment further
on Hindu India it hasn't been as as much
a part of my life but you could say
something broadly similar Hinduism
Buddhism Taoism these are actually all
ante of course so the potential is there
anti-abortion protesters could shut down
your University anti-abortion protesters
could shut down the highways of your
capital city where you live
anti-abortion protesters could shut you
on the airport and from their
perspective they are representing a
cause even more pious and sacred and
good than the cause of democracy or an
abyss cos from their perspective they're
trying to prevent the murder of innocent
people they have total faith in their
own cause your outside perspective may
not see it that way
but the outside perspective of people in
Beijing may not see the situation of
Hong Kong that way and the outside
perspective of people you know Toronto
and Vancouver and New York they may not
see kippa quoi in the pendants and the
québécois claims of a democracy in that
same way let's let's just cut right to
the chase here with one more example do
you think the Canadian government would
tolerate similar protests from our
indigenous people our First Nations
people for even five minutes if the Cree
a Jib way den a Iroquois for native
people shut down the airport in Montreal
shut down University camps shut down
roads through violence let's be clear
you know although it wasn't a ton of
violence the creation and maintenance of
the barricades in downtown Hong Kong
including shutting down their subway
system by the way preventing the subways
from working people couldn't enter and
exit Subway's but actually closing off
those roads closing off the campuses
children it involves violence okay and
you could imagine similarly if a bunch
of really passionate
native people indigenous people First
Nations people in Canada creed energy
but if they all got organized and all
arrived at Montreal Airport at the same
time they could shut down the airport
all right if you believe that civil
disobedience is good in and of itself
right then you have to approve of it
when it's applied to these various cases
equally if it's acceptable to shut down
the airport for one cause then it's
acceptable to shut down the airport for
another don't judge the method by the
goodness of the cause or the objectives
being pursued by that cause right you
have to judge the method in and of
itself
nobody will sympathize with the
government of Communist China and that's
because it is an unelected the
tater chip and holding elections and
permitting a free press to criticize the
government and certain measures of
transparency those are the bare minimum
requirements for legitimacy in the 21st
century not the maximum requirement I
did not regard the government of George
W Bush as being purchased with
legitimate and you might remember he
actually didn't win that election
long story way back in year 2000 before
most do you were born I'm sure you don't
remember oh it's not such a change in
history it wasn't so long ago that the
United States itself did not meet these
minimum requirements for legitimacy and
government that's that's really worth
meditating on that's really worth
reflecting on and learning from the
future okay it is inevitable that no one
is going to sympathize the government of
China precisely because it is an
unelected communist dictatorship
however sympathy is not just for your
friends sympathy is not just for people
you agree with sympathy is not just for
people who are on the same team as
yourself sympathy is an analytical tool
and it's absolutely crucial than in the
pursuit of political change we use
sympathy as an analytical tool to
understand our enemies to understand
people who are strange and exotic and
distant and far removed from that of us
whether that is the government of China
the government of Iraq or the government
Africa can't stand